          ................................         1.) To read:         ..........................................

           // https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1517582/what-is-the-difference-between-statically-typed-and-dynamically-typed-languages

          // https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17253545/scripting-language-vs-programming-language

         // https://cs.lmu.edu/~ray/notes/paradigms/


//...what-is-the-difference-between-statically-typed-and-dynamically-typed-languages
 
   STATICALLY TYPED LANGUAGES.
 
 // .. (Compiler resolves method calls compiler reference).

    1.) Usually better performance
    2.) Faster compiler error feed back
    3.) Better IDE support
    4.) Not suited for working with undefined data formats
    5.) Harder to start a developement when model is not defined
    6.) Longer compilation time
    7.) In many case requires to write code
    8.) (EG.) Statically typed language are (JAVA,C,C++,C#,SWIFT SCALA ,KOLIN,FORTRAN,PASCAL,RUST,GO,COBOL etc..,)


    DYNAMICALLY  TYPED  LANGUAGES.

 // ..  (Decision taken in running time)

 
     1.) lower performance
     2.) But it is faster developement
     3.) Some bugs might be detected only later in run time
     4.) Good for undefined data formats (meta programming)
     5.)  In this case the program will execute without any error 
     6.)  scripting languages are mostly dynamic as there is no compiler to do static checking 
     7.) The dynamically typed languages are (PYTHON,JAVA SCRIPT, RUB,PERL,PHP,R,DART,LUA,OBJECTIVE-C etc...,)

 // ... scripting-language-vs-programming-language:


      SCRIPTING LANGUAGES 
    
     1.) Scripting languages do not requier the compilation step
     2.) Scripting languages like JAVA SCRIPT or PHP need not to be compiled 
     3.) The interpreter will need and analyise the code each time it meets them and halts there is an error 
     4.) Some script languages traditionally used without an explicit compilation step are JAVA SCRIPT,PHP,PYTHON,VSB SCRIPT.
     5.) To auto mate certain task in a program
     6.) Extracting information from a data set 
     7.) Less code intensive as compared to traditional programming languages .


       PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES.

     1.) It communicate to the hardware .
     2.) In this there are high level languages that need to be converted to the machine level languages.
         Then only the computer understand the machine level languages 
     3.) like binary language (0 and 1).
     4.) They typically runinside a parent program like script 
     5.) More compatible while integrating code with mathematical models 
     6.) Languages like JAVA can be compiled and then used on any platform 
     7.) The programming languages like (JAVA,C,C++) are most widely use to make software or drivers 


 // ... notes/paradigms/......
 
      
Imperative: Programming with an explicit sequence of commands that update state.
Declarative: Programming by specifying the result you want, not how to get it.
Structured: Programming with clean, goto-free, nested control structures.
Procedural: Imperative programming with procedure calls.
Functional (Applicative): Programming with function calls that avoid any global state.
Function-Level (Combinator): Programming with no variables at all.
Object-Oriented: Programming by defining objects that send messages to each other. Objects have their own internal (encapsulated) state and public interfaces. Object orientation can be:
Class-based: Objects get state and behavior based on membership in a class.
Prototype-based: Objects get behavior from a prototype object.
Event-Driven: Programming with emitters and listeners of asynchronous actions.
Flow-Driven: Programming processes communicating with each other over predefined channels.
Logic (Rule-based): Programming by specifying a set of facts and rules. An engine infers the answers to questions.
Constraint: Programming by specifying a set of constraints. An engine finds the values that meet the constraints.
Aspect-Oriented: Programming cross-cutting concerns applied transparently.
Reflective: Programming by manipulating the program elements themselves.
Array: Programming with powerful array operators that usually make loops unnecessary.
Paradigms are not meant to be mutually exclusive; a single program can feature multiple paradigms!

Make sure to check out Wikipedia’s entry on Programming Paradigms.

A Look At Some Major Paradigms
Imperative Programming
Control flow in imperative programming is explicit: commands show how the computation takes place, step by step. Each step affects the global state of the computation.

    result = []
    i = 0
start:
    numPeople = length(people)
    if i >= numPeople goto finished
    p = people[i]
    nameLength = length(p.name)
    if nameLength <= 5 goto nextOne
    upperName = toUpper(p.name)
    addToList(result, upperName)
nextOne:
    i = i + 1
    goto start
finished:
    return sort(result)
Structured Programming
Structured programming is a kind of imperative programming where control flow is defined by nested loops, conditionals, and subroutines, rather than via gotos. Variables are generally local to blocks (have lexical scope).

result = [];
for i = 0; i < length(people); i++ {
    p = people[i];
    if length(p.name)) > 5 {
        addToList(result, toUpper(p.name));
    }
}
return sort(result);
Early languages emphasizing structured programming: Algol 60, PL/I, Algol 68, Pascal, C, Ada 83, Modula, Modula-2. Structured programming as a discipline is sometimes though to have been started by a famous letter by Edsger Dijkstra entitled Go to Statement Considered Harmful.

Object Oriented Programming
OOP is based on the sending of messages to objects. Objects respond to messages by performing operations, generally called methods. Messages can have arguments. A society of objects, each with their own local memory and own set of operations has a different feel than the monolithic processor and single shared memory feel of non object oriented languages.

One of the more visible aspects of the more pure-ish OO languages is that conditionals and loops become messages themselves, whose arguments are often blocks of executable code. In a Smalltalk-like syntax:

result := List new.
people each: [:p |
  p name length greaterThan: 5 ifTrue: [result add (p name upper)]
]
result sort.
^result
This can be shortened to:

^people filter: [:p | p name length greaterThan: 5] map: [:p | p name upper] sort
Many popular languages that call themselves OO languages (e.g., Java, C++), really just take some elements of OOP and mix them in to imperative-looking code. In the following, we can see that length and toUpper are methods rather than top-level functions, but the for and if are back to being control structures:

result = []
for p in people {
    if p.name.length > 5 {
        result.add(p.name.toUpper);
    }
}
return result.sort;
The first object oriented language was Simula-67; Smalltalk followed soon after as the first “pure” object-oriented language. Many languages designed from the 1980s to the present have labeled themselves object-oriented, notably C++, CLOS (object system of Common Lisp), Eiffel, Modula-3, Ada 95, Java, C#, Ruby.

Declarative Programming
Control flow in declarative programming is implicit: the programmer states only what the result should look like, not how to obtain it.

select upper(name)
from people
where length(name) > 5
order by name
No loops, no assignments, etc. Whatever engine that interprets this code is just supposed go get the desired information, and can use whatever approach it wants. (The logic and constraint paradigms are generally declarative as well.)

Functional Programming
In functional programming, control flow is expressed by combining function calls, rather than by assigning values to variables:

sort(
  fix(λf. λp.
    if(equals(p, emptylist),
      emptylist,
      if(greater(length(name(head(p))), 5),
        append(to_upper(name(head(p))), f(tail(p))),
        f(tail(people)))))(people))
Yikes! We’ll describe that later. For now, be thankful there’s usually syntactic sugar:

let
    fun uppercasedLongNames [] = []
      | uppercasedLongNames (p :: ps) =
          if length(name p) > 5 then (to_upper(name p))::(uppercasedLongNames ps)
          else (uppercasedLongNames ps)
in
    sort(uppercasedLongNames(people))
Huh? That still isn’t very pretty. Why do people like this stuff? Well the real power of this paradigm comes from passing functions to functions (and returning functions from functions).

sort(
    filter(λs. length s > 5,
        map(λp. to_upper(name p),
            people)))
We can do better by using the cool |> operator. Here x |> f just means f(x). The operator has very low precedence so you can read things left-to-right:

people |> map (λp. to_upper (name p)) |> filter (λs. length s > 5) |> sort
Let’s keep going! Notice that you wouldn’t write map(λx. square(x)), right? You would write map(square). We can do something similar above, but we have to use function composition, you know, (f o g)x is f(g(x)), so:

people |> map (to_upper o name) |> filter (λs. length s > 5) |> sort
Here are three things to read to get the gist of functional programming:

Kris Jenkins’ article
Chris Done’s two-part article
Joel Spolsky’s article on map and reduce
With functional programming:

There are no commands, only side-effect free expressions
Code is much shorter, less error-prone, and much easier to prove correct
There is more inherent parallelism, so good compilers can produce faster code
Some people like to say:

Functional, or Applicative, programming is programming without assignment statements: one just applies functions to arguments. Examples: Scheme, Haskell, Miranda, ML.
Function-level programming does away with the variables; one combines functions with functionals, a.k.a. combinators. Examples: FP, FL, J.
Exercise: Write the above example in Miranda, ML, and J.
Exercise: Research the following programming styles and state how they are similar and how they are different from each other: (a) Stack-based, (b) Concatenative, (c) Point-free, (d) Tacit.
Many languages have a neat little thing called comprehensions that combine map and filter.

sorted(p.name.upper() for p in people if len(p.name) > 5)
Logic and Constraint Programming
Logic programming and constraint programming are two paradigms in which programs are built by setting up relations that specify facts and inference rules, and asking whether or not something is true (i.e. specifying a goal.) Unification and backtracking to find solutions (i.e.. satisfy goals) takes place automatically.

Languages that emphasize this paradigm: Prolog, GHC, Parlog, Vulcan, Polka, Mercury, Fnil.

Exercise: Write the running example in Prolog.
Languages and Paradigms
One of the characteristics of a language is its support for particular programming paradigms. For example, Smalltalk has direct support for programming in the object-oriented way, so it might be called an object-oriented language. OCaml, Lisp, Scheme, and JavaScript programs tend to make heavy use of passing functions around so they are called “functional languages” despite having variables and many imperative constructs.

There are two very important observations here:

Very few languages implement a paradigm 100%. When they do, they are pure. It is incredibly rare to have a “pure OOP” language or a “pure functional” language. A lot of languages have a few escapes; for example in OCaml, you will program with functions 90% or more of the time, but if you need state, you can get it. Another example: very few languages implement OOP the way Alan Kay envisioned it.
A lot of languages will facilitate programming in one or more paradigms. In Scala you can do imperative, object-oriented, and functional programming quite easily. If a language is purposely designed to allow programming in many paradigms is called a multi-paradigm language. If a language only accidentally supports multiple paradigms, we don’t have a special word for that
   





 //  ...........................................  2.) Write a blog on Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2   .........................................

 // HTTP/1.1
//Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee in 1989 as a communication standard for the World Wide Web, HTTP is a top-level application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer and a local or remote web server. In this process, a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.

For example, let’s say you are visiting a website at the domain www.example.com. When you navigate to this URL, the web browser on your computer sends an HTTP request in the form of a text-based message, similar to the one shown here:

GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
This request uses the GET method, which asks for data from the host server listed after Host:. In response to this request, the example.com web server returns an HTML page to the requesting client, in addition to any images, stylesheets, or other resources called for in the HTML. Note that not all of the resources are returned to the client in the first call for data. The requests and responses will go back and forth between the server and client until the web browser has received all the resources necessary to render the contents of the HTML page on your screen.

You can think of this exchange of requests and responses as a single application layer of the internet protocol stack, sitting on top of the transfer layer (usually using the Transmission Control Protocol, or TCP) and networking layers (using the Internet Protocol, or IP)

h to discuss about the lower levels of this stack, but in order to gain a high-level understanding of HTTP/2, you only need to know this abstracted layer model and where HTTP figures into it.

With this basic overview of HTTP/1.1 out of the way, we can now move on to recounting the early development of HTTP/2.

//HTTP/2
HTTP/2 began as the SPDY protocol, developed primarily at Google with the intention of reducing web page load latency by using techniques such as compression, multiplexing, and prioritization. This protocol served as a template for HTTP/2 when the Hypertext Transfer Protocol working group httpbis of the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) put the standard together, culminating in the publication of HTTP/2 in May 2015. From the beginning, many browsers supported this standardization effort, including Chrome, Opera, Internet Explorer, and Safari. Due in part to this browser support, there has been a significant adoption rate of the protocol since 2015, with especially high rates among new sites.

From a technical point of view, one of the most significant features that distinguishes HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 is the binary framing layer, which can be thought of as a part of the application layer in the internet protocol stack. As opposed to HTTP/1.1, which keeps all requests and responses in plain text format, HTTP/2 uses the binary framing layer to encapsulate all messages in binary format, while still maintaining HTTP semantics, such as verbs, methods, and headers. An application level API would still create messages in the conventional HTTP formats, but the underlying layer would then convert these messages into binary. This ensures that web applications created before HTTP/2 can continue functioning as normal when interacting with the new protocol.

The conversion of messages into binary allows HTTP/2 to try new approaches to data delivery not available in HTTP/1.1, a contrast that is at the root of the practical differences between the two protocols. The next section will take a look at the delivery model of HTTP/1.1, followed by what new models are made possible by HTTP/2.

Delivery Models
As mentioned in the previous section, HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 share semantics, ensuring that the requests and responses traveling between the server and client in both protocols reach their destinations as traditionally formatted messages with headers and bodies, using familiar methods like GET and POST. But while HTTP/1.1 transfers these in plain-text messages, HTTP/2 encodes these into binary, allowing for significantly different delivery model possibilities. In this section, we will first briefly examine how HTTP/1.1 tries to optimize efficiency with its delivery model and the problems that come up from this, followed by the advantages of the binary framing layer of HTTP/2 and a description of how it prioritizes requests.

//HTTP/1.1 — Pipelining and Head-of-Line Blocking
The first response that a client receives on an HTTP GET request is often not the fully rendered page. Instead, it contains links to additional resources needed by the requested page. The client discovers that the full rendering of the page requires these additional resources from the server only after it downloads the page. Because of this, the client will have to make additional requests to retrieve these resources. In HTTP/1.0, the client had to break and remake the TCP connection with every new request, a costly affair in terms of both time and resources.

//HTTP/1.1 takes care of this problem by introducing persistent connections and pipelining. With persistent connections, HTTP/1.1 assumes that a TCP connection should be kept open unless directly told to close. This allows the client to send multiple requests along the same connection without waiting for a response to each, greatly improving the performance of HTTP/1.1 over HTTP/1.0.

Unfortunately, there is a natural bottleneck to this optimization strategy. Since multiple data packets cannot pass each other when traveling to the same destination, there are situations in which a request at the head of the queue that cannot retrieve its required resource will block all the requests behind it. This is known as head-of-line (HOL) blocking, and is a significant problem with optimizing connection efficiency in HTTP/1.1. Adding separate, parallel TCP connections could alleviate this issue, but there are limits to the number of concurrent TCP connections possible between a client and server, and each new connection requires significant resources.

These problems were at the forefront of the minds of HTTP/2 developers, who proposed to use the aforementioned binary framing layer to fix these issues, a topic you will learn more about in the next section.

//HTTP/2 — Advantages of the Binary Framing Layer
In HTTP/2, the binary framing layer encodes requests/responses and cuts them up into smaller packets of information, greatly increasing the flexibility of data transfer.

Let’s take a closer look at how this works. As opposed to HTTP/1.1, which must make use of multiple TCP connections to lessen the the effect of HOL blocking, HTTP/2 establishes a single connection object between the two machines. Within this connection there are multiple streams of data. Each stream consists of multiple messages in the familiar request/response format. Finally, each of these messages split into smaller units called frames

At the most granular level, the communication channel consists of a bunch of binary-encoded frames, each tagged to a particular stream. The identifying tags allow the connection to interleave these frames during transfer and reassemble them at the other end. The interleaved requests and responses can run in parallel without blocking the messages behind them, a process called multiplexing. Multiplexing resolves the head-of-line blocking issue in HTTP/1.1 by ensuring that no message has to wait for another to finish. This also means that servers and clients can send concurrent requests and responses, allowing for greater control and more efficient connection management.

Since multiplexing allows the client to construct multiple streams in parallel, these streams only need to make use of a single TCP connection. Having a single persistent connection per origin improves upon HTTP/1.1 by reducing the memory and processing footprint throughout the network. This results in better network and bandwidth utilization and thus decreases the overall operational cost.

A single TCP connection also improves the performance of the HTTPS protocol, since the client and server can reuse the same secured session for multiple requests/responses. In HTTPS, during the TLS or SSL handshake, both parties agree on the use of a single key throughout the session. If the connection breaks, a new session starts, requiring a newly generated key for further communication. Thus, maintaining a single connection can greatly reduce the resources required for HTTPS performance. Note that, though HTTP/2 specifications do not make it mandatory to use the TLS layer, many major browsers only support HTTP/2 with HTTPS.

Although the multiplexing inherent in the binary framing layer solves certain issues of HTTP/1.1, multiple streams awaiting the same resource can still cause performance issues. The design of HTTP/2 takes this into account, however, by using stream prioritization, a topic we will discuss in the next section.

//HTTP/2 — Stream Prioritization
Stream prioritization not only solves the possible issue of requests competing for the same resource, but also allows developers to customize the relative weight of requests to better optimize application performance. In this section, we will break down the process of this prioritization in order to provide better insight into how you can leverage this feature of HTTP/2.

As you know now, the binary framing layer organizes messages into parallel streams of data. When a client sends concurrent requests to a server, it can prioritize the responses it is requesting by assigning a weight between 1 and 256 to each stream. The higher number indicates higher priority. In addition to this, the client also states each stream’s dependency on another stream by specifying the ID of the stream on which it depends. If the parent identifier is omitted, the stream is considered to be dependent on the root stream. This is illustrated in the following figure

, the channel contains six streams, each with a unique ID and associated with a specific weight. Stream 1 does not have a parent ID associated with it and is by default associated with the root node. All other streams have some parent ID marked. The resource allocation for each stream will be based on the weight that they hold and the dependencies they require. Streams 5 and 6 for example, which in the figure have been assigned the same weight and same parent stream, will have the same prioritization for resource allocation.

The server uses this information to create a dependency tree, which allows the server to determine the order in which the requests will retrieve their data. Based on the streams in the preceding figure, the dependency tree will be as follows

In this dependency tree, stream 1 is dependent on the root stream and there is no other stream derived from the root, so all the available resources will allocate to stream 1 ahead of the other streams. Since the tree indicates that stream 2 depends on the completion of stream 1, stream 2 will not proceed until the stream 1 task is completed. Now, let us look at streams 3 and 4. Both these streams depend on stream 2. As in the case of stream 1, stream 2 will get all the available resources ahead of streams 3 and 4. After stream 2 completes its task, streams 3 and 4 will get the resources; these are split in the ratio of 2:4 as indicated by their weights, resulting in a higher chunk of the resources for stream 4. Finally, when stream 3 finishes, streams 5 and 6 will get the available resources in equal parts. This can happen before stream 4 has finished its task, even though stream 4 receives a higher chunk of resources; streams at a lower level are allowed to start as soon as the dependent streams on an upper level have finished.

As an application developer, you can set the weights in your requests based on your needs. For example, you may assign a lower priority for loading an image with high resolution after providing a thumbnail image on the web page. By providing this facility of weight assignment, HTTP/2 enables developers to gain better control over web page rendering. The protocol also allows the client to change dependencies and reallocate weights at runtime in response to user interaction. It is important to note, however, that a server may change assigned priorities on its own if a certain stream is blocked from accessing a specific resource.

Buffer Overflow
In any TCP connection between two machines, both the client and the server have a certain amount of buffer space available to hold incoming requests that have not yet been processed. These buffers offer flexibility to account for numerous or particularly large requests, in addition to uneven speeds of downstream and upstream connections.

There are situations, however, in which a buffer is not enough. For example, the server may be pushing a large amount of data at a pace that the client application is not able to cope with due to a limited buffer size or a lower bandwidth. Likewise, when a client uploads a huge image or a video to a server, the server buffer may overflow, causing some additional packets to be lost.

In order to avoid buffer overflow, a flow control mechanism must prevent the sender from overwhelming the receiver with data. This section will provide an overview of how HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 use different versions of this mechanism to deal with flow control according to their different delivery models.

//HTTP/1.1
In HTTP/1.1, flow control relies on the underlying TCP connection. When this connection initiates, both client and server establish their buffer sizes using their system default settings. If the receiver’s buffer is partially filled with data, it will tell the sender its receive window, i.e., the amount of available space that remains in its buffer. This receive window is advertised in a signal known as an ACK packet, which is the data packet that the receiver sends to acknowledge that it received the opening signal. If this advertised receive window size is zero, the sender will send no more data until the client clears its internal buffer and then requests to resume data transmission. It is important to note here that using receive windows based on the underlying TCP connection can only implement flow control on either end of the connection.

Because HTTP/1.1 relies on the transport layer to avoid buffer overflow, each new TCP connection requires a separate flow control mechanism. HTTP/2, however, multiplexes streams within a single TCP connection, and will have to implement flow control in a different manner.

//HTTP/2
HTTP/2 multiplexes streams of data within a single TCP connection. As a result, receive windows on the level of the TCP connection are not sufficient to regulate the delivery of individual streams. HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing the client and server to implement their own flow controls, rather than relying on the transport layer. The application layer communicates the available buffer space, allowing the client and server to set the receive window on the level of the multiplexed streams. This fine-scale flow control can be modified or maintained after the initial connection via a WINDOW_UPDATE frame.

Since this method controls data flow on the level of the application layer, the flow control mechanism does not have to wait for a signal to reach its ultimate destination before adjusting the receive window. Intermediary nodes can use the flow control settings information to determine their own resource allocations and modify accordingly. In this way, each intermediary server can implement its own custom resource strategy, allowing for greater connection efficiency.

This flexibility in flow control can be advantageous when creating appropriate resource strategies. For example, the client may fetch the first scan of an image, display it to the user, and allow the user to preview it while fetching more critical resources. Once the client fetches these critical resources, the browser will resume the retrieval of the remaining part of the image. Deferring the implementation of flow control to the client and server can thus improve the perceived performance of web applications.

In terms of flow control and the stream prioritization mentioned in an earlier section, HTTP/2 provides a more detailed level of control that opens up the possibility of greater optimization. The next section will explain another method unique to the protocol that can enhance a connection in a similar way: predicting resource requests with server push.

Predicting Resource Requests
In a typical web application, the client will send a GET request and receive a page in HTML, usually the index page of the site. While examining the index page contents, the client may discover that it needs to fetch additional resources, such as CSS and JavaScript files, in order to fully render the page. The client determines that it needs these additional resources only after receiving the response from its initial GET request, and thus must make additional requests to fetch these resources and complete putting the page together. These additional requests ultimately increase the connection load time.

There are solutions to this problem, however: since the server knows in advance that the client will require additional files, the server can save the client time by sending these resources to the client before it asks for them. HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 have different strategies of accomplishing this, each of which will be described in the next section.
//HTTP/1.1 — Resource Inlining
In HTTP/1.1, if the developer knows in advance which additional resources the client machine will need to render the page, they can use a technique called resource inlining to include the required resource directly within the HTML document that the server sends in response to the initial GET request. For example, if a client needs a specific CSS file to render a page, inlining that CSS file will provide the client with the needed resource before it asks for it, reducing the total number of requests that the client must send.

But there are a few problems with resource inlining. Including the resource in the HTML document is a viable solution for smaller, text-based resources, but larger files in non-text formats can greatly increase the size of the HTML document, which can ultimately decrease the connection speed and nullify the original advantage gained from using this technique. Also, since the inlined resources are no longer separate from the HTML document, there is no mechanism for the client to decline resources that it already has, or to place a resource in its cache. If multiple pages require the resource, each new HTML document will have the same resource inlined in its code, leading to larger HTML documents and longer load times than if the resource were simply cached in the beginning.

A major drawback of resource inlining, then, is that the client cannot separate the resource and the document. A finer level of control is needed to optimize the connection, a need that HTTP/2 seeks to meet with server push.

//HTTP/2 — Server Push
Since HTTP/2 enables multiple concurrent responses to a client’s initial GET request, a server can send a resource to a client along with the requested HTML page, providing the resource before the client asks for it. This process is called server push. In this way, an HTTP/2 connection can accomplish the same goal of resource inlining while maintaining the separation between the pushed resource and the document. This means that the client can decide to cache or decline the pushed resource separate from the main HTML document, fixing the major drawback of resource inlining.

In HTTP/2, this process begins when the server sends a PUSH_PROMISE frame to inform the client that it is going to push a resource. This frame includes only the header of the message, and allows the client to know ahead of time which resource the server will push. If it already has the resource cached, the client can decline the push by sending a RST_STREAM frame in response. The PUSH_PROMISE frame also saves the client from sending a duplicate request to the server, since it knows which resources the server is going to push.

It is important to note here that the emphasis of server push is client control. If a client needed to adjust the priority of server push, or even disable it, it could at any time send a SETTINGS frame to modify this HTTP/2 feature.

Although this feature has a lot of potential, server push is not always the answer to optimizing your web application. For example, some web browsers cannot always cancel pushed requests, even if the client already has the resource cached. If the client mistakenly allows the server to send a duplicate resource, the server push can use up the connection unnecessarily. In the end, server push should be used at the discretion of the developer. For more on how to strategically use server push and optimize web applications, check out the PRPL pattern developed by Google. To learn more about the possible issues with server push, see Jake Archibald’s blog post HTTP/2 push is tougher than I thought.

Compression
A common method of optimizing web applications is to use compression algorithms to reduce the size of HTTP messages that travel between the client and the server. HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 both use this strategy, but there are implementation problems in the former that prohibit compressing the entire message. The following section will discuss why this is the case, and how HTTP/2 can provide a solution.

//HTTP/1.1
Programs like gzip have long been used to compress the data sent in HTTP messages, especially to decrease the size of CSS and JavaScript files. The header component of a message, however, is always sent as plain text. Although each header is quite small, the burden of this uncompressed data weighs heavier and heavier on the connection as more requests are made, particularly penalizing complicated, API-heavy web applications that require many different resources and thus many different resource requests. Additionally, the use of cookies can sometimes make headers much larger, increasing the need for some kind of compression.

In order to solve this bottleneck, HTTP/2 uses HPACK compression to shrink the size of headers, a topic discussed further in the next section.

///HTTP/2
One of the themes that has come up again and again in HTTP/2 is its ability to use the binary framing layer to exhibit greater control over finer detail. The same is true when it comes to header compression. HTTP/2 can split headers from their data, resulting in a header frame and a data frame. The HTTP/2-specific compression program HPACK can then compress this header frame. This algorithm can encode the header metadata using Huffman coding, thereby greatly decreasing its size. Additionally, HPACK can keep track of previously conveyed metadata fields and further compress them according to a dynamically altered index shared between the client and the server. For example, take the following two requests




//.........................................3.) Write a blog about objects and its internal representation in Javascript  ...........................................



      //   Objects, in JavaScript, is it’s most important data-type and forms the building blocks for modern JavaScript. These objects are quite different from JavaScript’s primitive data-types(Number, String, Boolean, null, undefined and symbol) in the sense that while these primitive data-types all store a single value each (depending on their types).
Objects are more complex and each object may contain any combination of these primitive data-types as well as reference data-types.
An object, is a reference data type. Variables that are assigned a reference value are given a reference or a pointer to that value. That reference or pointer points to the location in memory where the object is stored. The variables don’t actually store the value.
Loosely speaking, objects in JavaScript may be defined as an unordered collection of related data, of primitive or reference types, in the form of “key: value” pairs. These keys can be variables or functions and are called properties and methods, respectively, in the context of an object.
For Eg. If your object is a student, it will have properties like name, age, address, id, etc and methods like updateAddress, updateNam, etc.
Objects and properties
A JavaScript object has properties associated with it. A property of an object can be explained as a variable that is attached to the object. Object properties are basically the same as ordinary JavaScript variables, except for the attachment to objects. The properties of an object define the characteristics of the object. You access the properties of an object with a simple dot-notation:
objectName.propertyName
Like all JavaScript variables, both the object name (which could be a normal variable) and property name are case sensitive. You can define a property by assigning it a value. For example, let’s create an object named myCar and give it properties named make, model, and year as follows:
var myCar = new Object();
myCar.make = 'Ford';
myCar.model = 'Mustang';
myCar.year = 1969;
Unassigned properties of an object are undefined (and not null).
myCar.color; // undefined
Properties of JavaScript objects can also be accessed or set using a bracket notation (for more details see property accessors). Objects are sometimes called associative arrays, since each property is associated with a string value that can be used to access it. So, for example, you could access the properties of the myCar object as follows:
myCar['make'] = 'Ford';
myCar['model'] = 'Mustang';
myCar['year'] = 1969;
An object property name can be any valid JavaScript string, or anything that can be converted to a string, including the empty string. However, any property name that is not a valid JavaScript identifier (for example, a property name that has a space or a hyphen, or that starts with a number) can only be accessed using the square bracket notation. This notation is also very useful when property names are to be dynamically determined (when the property name is not determined until runtime). Examples are as follows:
// four variables are created and assigned in a single go, 
// separated by commas
var myObj = new Object(),
    str = 'myString',
    rand = Math.random(),
    obj = new Object();
myObj.type              = 'Dot syntax';
myObj['date created']   = 'String with space';
myObj[str]              = 'String value';
myObj[rand]             = 'Random Number';
myObj[obj]              = 'Object';
myObj['']               = 'Even an empty string';console.log(myObj);
You can also access properties by using a string value that is stored in a variable:
var propertyName = 'make';
myCar[propertyName] = 'Ford';propertyName = 'model';
myCar[propertyName] = 'Mustang';
You can use the bracket notation with for...in to iterate over all the enumerable properties of an object. To illustrate how this works, the following function displays the properties of the object when you pass the object and the object's name as arguments to the function:
function showProps(obj, objName) {
  var result = ``;
  for (var i in obj) {
    // obj.hasOwnProperty() is used to filter out properties from the object's prototype chain
    if (obj.hasOwnProperty(i)) {
      result += `${objName}.${i} = ${obj[i]}\n`;
    }
  }
  return result;
}
So, the function call showProps(myCar, "myCar") would return the following:
myCar.make = Ford
myCar.model = Mustang
myCar.year = 1969
Creating Objects In JavaScript :
Create JavaScript Object with Object Literal
One of easiest way to create a javascript object is object literal, simply define the property and values inside curly braces as shown below
let bike = {name: 'SuperSport', maker:'Ducati', engine:'937cc'};
Create JavaScript Object with Constructor
Constructor is nothing but a function and with help of new keyword, constructor function allows to create multiple objects of same flavor as shown below
function Vehicle(name, maker) {
   this.name = name;
   this.maker = maker;
}
let car1 = new Vehicle(’Fiesta’, 'Ford’);
let car2 = new Vehicle(’Santa Fe’, 'Hyundai’)
console.log(car1.name);    //Output: Fiesta
console.log(car2.name);    //Output: Santa Fe
Using the JavaScript Keyword new
The following example also creates a new JavaScript object with four properties:
//...Example
var person = new Object();
person.firstName = “John”;
person.lastName = “Doe”;
person.age = 50;
person.eyeColor = “blue”;
Using the Object.create method
Objects can also be created using the Object.create() method. This method can be very useful, because it allows you to choose the prototype object for the object you want to create, without having to define a constructor function.
// Animal properties and method encapsulation
var Animal = {
  type: 'Invertebrates', // Default value of properties
  displayType: function() {  // Method which will display type of Animal
    console.log(this.type);
  }
};
// Create new animal type called animal1 
var animal1 = Object.create(Animal);
animal1.displayType(); // Output:Invertebrates
// Create new animal type called Fishes
var fish = Object.create(Animal);
fish.type = 'Fishes';
fish.displayType(); 
// Output:Fishes










